=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

asciitf2vtf - Convert an ASCII description of a Lookup Transfer table
to VAPOR's vtf format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<asciitf2vtf> [options] I<vtffile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<asciitf2vtf> is a translator for converting an ASACII representation
of a color and opacity transfer funciton into VAPOR's .vtf format. The
resulting .vtf file may be loaded into a VAPOR session. The ASCII
transfer function files input into B<asciitf2vf> are whitespace-separted
lists of n-tuples of floating point values. The first element of each
tuple specifies the data value that the opacity or color will be mapped
to. The domain of the first tuple element is the set of real numbers,
but most typically set to the user data domain.  The remaining tuple
elements specify opacity or color values in the normalized range [0.0..1.0].

The translated file is written to the path specified by I<vtffile>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -cmap E<lt>cmap_fileE<gt>

Path to an ASCII file containing a color transfer function
description. Presently only the Hue-Saturation-Value (HSV) color model
is supported: each tuple is of the form (D, H, S, V), where I<D> is the
data value, I<H> is the normalized hue, I<S> is normalized color saturation,
and I<V> is normalized color value.

=item -omap E<lt>omap_fileE<gt>

Path to an ASCII file containing an opacity transfer function description.
Each tuple is of the form (D, O), where I<D> is the data value and I<O>
is the normalized opacity: a value of 0.0 is fully transparent, and a
value of 1.0 is fully opaque.

=item -help 

Print a help message and then exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To create a linear opacity ramp with a fully transparent opacity at
the data value 0.0 and a fully opaque opacity at the data value 100.0,
an ASCII opacity transfer function file named "opacity.txt" would contain:

=over 4

0.0 0.0

100.0 1.0

=back

To convert B<opacity.txt> to a .vtf file named "map.vtf", the following invocation would be used:

=over 4

asciitf2vtf -omap opacity.txt map.vtf

=back

If in addition to an opacity transfer function a color transfer function
is to be included that linearly ramps the Hue from 0 to 360 degrees,
and has constant, full saturation and value, an ASCII transfer function
file named "color.txt" would contain:

=over 4

0.0 0.0 1.0 1.0

100.0 1.0 1.0 1.0

=back

Note that all HSV elements are normalized.  The following invocation would be used to convert both opacity and color transfer function files:

=over 4

asciitf2vtf -cmap color.txt -omap opacity.txt map.vtf

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 NOTES

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$
