=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

getWMSImage.sh - Retrieve maps and imagery from a Web Mapping Server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<getWMSImage.sh> [options] I<minLon minLat maxLon maxLat>

=head1 DESCRIPTION


B<getWMSImage.sh> is a bash-shell script for retrieving maps and imagery from 
an OGC-compliant Web Mapping Server (WMS). It operates in two modes: default mode
and expert mode. The default mode is intended to help most users acquire typical base-map
images, choosing from a small set of predefined map types. The existing map types include
NASA Blue Marble and Landsat imagery, maps of political boundaries, rivers, etc. 

Expert mode can be used to extract arbitrary imagery from any OGC-compliant server. It is 
intended only for users who are highly knowledgeable about WMS protocol and servers. In general, 
this requires knowing how to acquire and interpret the so-called "GetCapabilities" document for
a server, and using the information to determine the "GetMap" URL, the map layers that are 
available, and the image formats that are supported. Consult the WMS specifications for details
(http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/wms).

In either mode, the bounding box of the area of interest must be specified through the 
I<minLon minLat maxLon maxLat> parameters. These are given in decimal-degrees, and must be
in the range og [-180..180] for longitudinal values, and [-90..90] for latitudes. To specify
a region encompassing one of the poles, use -180 and 180 for I<minLon, maxLon>, and either -90
as I<minLat> for the south pole, or 90 as I<maxLat> for the north pole.

By default, if the script is run without options, an image of NASA's Blue Marble Next-Generation imagery
is downloaded for the area of interest, at a resolution of 1025x768 pixels, and placed in a file
named BMNG.tiff. A number of options can be used in both modes to override this behavior.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Default Mode Options

=over 4

=item -m I<map_name>

Specifies which of the predetermined map-types to download. Must be one of:

    BMNG        : Blue Marble Next-Generation; the default
    landsat     : Landsat imagery
    USstates    : US state boundaries
    UScounties  : US state and county boundaries
    world       : World political boundaries
    rivers      : major world rivers (scale-dependent)

Use of this option overrides expert options.

=item -r I<xres yres>

Specify the pixel resolution of the requested image/map. The default is 1024x768.

=item -o I<outImageFile>

Specify the name for the request image/map file. By default, it is I<map_name>.tiff.

=item -t

Request that the image background should be transparent. This may or may not be 
honored by a given WMS. Note that foreground colors are determined by the server.

=back 

=head2 Expert Mode Options

Expert mode operates in lieu of the B<-m map_name> option of default mode, where the server URL, 
image layer name(s), and image format must be explictly specified. 

=over 4

=item -s I<WMS_URL>

Specifies the URL for the desired WMS "GetMap" request.

=item -l I<layer_name>

Specifies the layer name (or comma-separated names) of the map/image feature(s) to be retrieved.

=item -f I<image_format>

Specifies the format for the requested image, as advertised by the WMS server.

=item -r I<xres yres>

Specify the pixel resolution of the requested image/map. The default is 1024x768.

=item -o I<outImageFile>

Specify the name for the request image/map file. By default, it is I<layer_name>.tiff.

=item -t

Request that the image background should be transparent. This may or may not be 
honored by a given WMS. Note that foreground colors are determined by the server.

=item -z

Request that the resultant image file is compressed (not supported on all platforms).

=item -d

Debug mode; does not delete intermediate files.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


C<getWMSImage.sh -m world 0 0 90 90>

will return an image file named I<world.tiff> that is a Blue Marble image of Europe, part of Eurasia, and
the north pole.

C<getWMSImage.sh -m UScounties -o westernUS.tiff -r 500 500 -125 25 -100 50>

will return an image file named I<westernUS.tiff> that depicts state and county boundaries 
of the western half of the United States.

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

