=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

raw2wasp - Transform and write a raw data volume into a NetCDF WASP file.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<raw2wasp> [options] I<waspfile> I<datafile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<raw2wasp> reads a 3D or 2D volume of data from disk, wavelet transforms
the data, and stores it in file I<waspfile>.
The data volume must be stored on disk as a contiguous array of
unformatted binary floating point values (32bit precision by default)
with no header or trailer information. The dimensions of the raw data
volume must match those specified in I<waspfile>. The file indicated by
I<waspfile> must be a valid WASP file created, for example, by the 
B<waspcreate> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -debug

Enable diagnostics.

=item -varname E<lt>nameE<gt>

This option specifies name of the variable that the raw data volume 
corresponds too. The name must match either a 2D or 3D variable name
in the WASP indicated by I<waspfile>. If I<name> matches a 2D variable, 
a 2D slice of data expected to be contained in I<datafile>. If I<name> 
matches a 3D variable, B<raw2wasp>
will attempt to read a 3D data volume from I<datafile>. The dimensions of
the volume/slice contained in I<datafile> must match those of the
corresponding variable defined in I<waspfile>.

=item -type E<lt>typeE<gt>

Primitive data type of the data stored in I<datafile>. Supported values
are 'float32', 'float64', and 'int32'.

=item -lod E<lt>nE<gt>

Compressed variables are stored with a finite number of fixed refinement
levels determined by the number of compression ratios specified in the 
I<waspfile> file. By default all refinement levels are output. This 
option can be used to reduce the refinement levels output. 
A value 0 implies coarsest, 1 => next refinement, and so on. The value -1
is synonymous with the highest refinement level available.

=item -nthreads E<lt>nE<gt>

This option can be used to specify the number of execution threads to be
employed when transforming data. The default value of I<n> is 0, which
causes the application to query the operating system to find the number
of processors available, and then use that value. For most platforms
the number of processors available is the result of the system call,
sysconf(_SC_NPROCESSORS_ONLN).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<waspcreate -dimlens 256:256:256 -dimnames Nz:Ny:Nx vx:NC_FLOAT:3:Nz:Ny:Nx>

followed by 

C<raw2wasp -varname vx test.nc vx.float>

would transform the volume stored in the file B<vx.float> and write it into 
the WASP file associated with the B<test.nc> file. This assumes that
the array stored in file B<vx.float> has dimensions 256x256x256 and the
elements are stored as 32-bit floats.

=head1 SEE ALSO

waspcreate, wasp2raw

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

