=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

vdccp.py - Copies a user defined portion of a vdc database.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vdfcp.pl> [options] I<srcvdf> I<destination>
B<vdfcp.pl> -list I<srcvdf>
B<vdfcp.pl> -info I<srcvdf>

B<vdccp.py> [-h] [-v VAR] [-x EXCLUDE] [-s START_FRAME] [-e END_FRAME] [-d FRAME_COUNT] [-c COMPRESSION] [-f] [-n] [--coord-start-frame COORD_START_FRAME] [--coord-end-frame COORD_END_FRAME] [--info] [--info-var INFO_VAR] [--version] -I<source> [-I<destination>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<vdfcp.pl> copies I<srcvdf>, or part of I<srcvdf>, to I<destination>. The first
form does this. The second form is used to obtain a list of the files that
would be copied if the first form were used on I<srcvdf>. The third form prints
a human-readable message detailing the available ranges of timesteps, variables
and refinement available in I<srcvdf>.

B<vdccp.py> copies a user defined portion of a VDC database, -I<source>, to I<destination>. With no options set, the entire database is copied. If a variable is chosen with -v, only those chosen are copied. All coordinates are copied unless excluded with -x. This utility can also show information about the database or a specific variable/coordinate by passing the option --info and --info-var respectively.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -v, --var

Variable(s) to be copied. All coordinates selected by default and can be removed with -x. Multiple can be grouped together if colon separated. If none specified, all variables selected.

=item -x, --exclude

Variable(s) or coordinate(s) to be excluded. Multiple can be grouped together if colon separated. Overrides any variables added with -v.

=item -s, --start-frame

Start frame. Default first frame. (Frames do not correspond directly to time steps. A single frame can contain multiple time steps.

=item -e, --end-frame

End frame. Default last frame. Overrides -d. If neither -e or -d is specified, the entire data set after the start is copied.

=item -d, --frame-count

Number of time frames from Start to copy. Overridden by -e.

=item -c, --compression

Compression level to copy. Default maximum detail.

=item -f, --force

Overwrites existing data if necessary.

=item -n, --dry-run

Show what would have been transferred.

=item --coord-start-frame

Start frame for coordinates. All coordinate frames copied by default. -s does not affect coordinate frames.

=item --coord-end-frame

End frame for coordinates. All coordinate frames copied by default. -s does not affect coordinate frames.

=item --info

Prints available variables, coordinates, compression levels, and maximum/minimum timesteps for data set and exits.

=item --info-var

Prints available variables, coordinates, compression levels, and maximum/minimum timesteps for a specific variable and exits.

=item --version

Prints version number and exits

=item -h, --help

Shows usage and description and exits.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The command...

C<vdccp.py -v P:T -c 2 -s 10 -d 20 path/to/source.vdc path/to/dest>

...will copy source.vdc and its associated dataset to the path/to/data directory.  Only the variables P and T will be copied, only levels 0, 1 and 2, and timesteps 10 through 30 will be copied to the new dataset.


This command...

C<vdccp.py --info --info-var bx --info-var bz path/to/source.vdf>

...will show the range of levels in source.vdf's dataset, as well as all timesteps, variables and coordinates. It will also list information specific to the variables bx and bz.

=head1 SEE ALSO

vdfcreate, wrf2vdf, 

I<Copy a VDC to a new location>

=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

