=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

wasp2raw - Inverse transform a variable found in a NetCDF WASP file and store
the results in output file as a raw binary array.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<wasp2raw> [options] I<waspfile> I<datafile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<wasp2raw> extracts a variable from the 
WASP file I<waspfile>, decompresses the variable (if compressed),
and stores the results in the file indicated by I<datafile>.
The data are written as a contiguous array of unformatted binary
floating point values. The X dimension varies fastest, followed by Y, then Z.
Data are written at 32 bit precision in the native format of the 
machine where B<wasp2raw> is run.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -varname E<lt>nameE<gt>

This option specifies name of the variable to extract. 

=item -lod E<lt>nE<gt>

Compressed variables are stored with a finite number of fixed refinement
levels determined by the number of compression ratios specified in the
I<waspfile> file. By default the maximum refinement level is output. This
option can be used to reduce the refinement level output.
A value 0 implies coarsest, 1 => next refinement, and so on. The value -1
is synonymous with the highest refinement level available.

=item -level E<lt>levelE<gt>

Compressed variables in a WASP file are represented by a multiresolution
hierarchy. This option specifies which level in the hierarchy to
extract the variable from. A value of 0, the default, indicates the
coarsest level in hierarchy. A value of 1 implies the first refinement
level, and so on. The special value, -1, is synonymous with the
native data resolution, whatever level that may be.


=item -nthreads E<lt>nE<gt>

This option can be used to specify the number of execution threads to be
employed when transforming data. The default value of I<n> is 0, which
causes the application to query the operating system to find the number
of processors available, and then use that value. For most platformsthe number of processors available is the result of the system call,
sysconf(_SC_NPROCESSORS_ONLN).

=item -start E<lt>startE<gt>

A colon-delimited NetCDF style I<start> coordinate vector used to select
an offset into the array. This option together with the I<-count> option
can be used to restrict output to a rectangular subset of the array.

=item -count E<lt>countE<gt>

A colon-delimited NetCDF style I<count> coordinate vector used to
specify dimensions of a subset of the array to output. This option
together with the I<-count> option can be used to restrict output
to a rectangular subset of the array.

=item -type E<lt>typeE<gt>

Primitive data type of the data to be output to I<datafile>. Supported values
are 'float32', 'float64', and 'int32'.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<wasp2raw -varname vx test.nc vx.float>

would reconstruct the variable with name B<vx> 
from the file indicated by B<foo.nc>, and write the results
to the file B<vx.float>. The data would be extracted at their native
grid resolution, and maximum refinement level.

The command 

C<wasp2raw -lod 0 -varname vx foo.wasp vx.float>

would perform identically to the one above except that the 
coarsest approximation would be extracted for variable B<vx>.


=head1 SEE ALSO

waspcreate, raw2wasp

I<An Overview of VAPOR Data Collections>


=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

