=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

waspcreate - Generate a WASP file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<waspcreate> [options] [name:xtype:count[:dimname]+]+

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<waspcreate> generates an empty NetCDF file,
suitable for containing compressed arrays (NetCDF variables) following
the WASP conventions. The resulting file contains the definitions
of NetCDF dimensions, and 1D, 2D, and 3D variables that may
subsequently be populated using, for example, the B<raw2wasp>
command. Variable names, external storage type, and associated
dimension names are specified by repeated instances of the pattern:
[name:xtype:count[:dimname]+], defined as follows:

=over 4

=item name 

The variable's name. Any string permitted by NetCDF.

=item xtype 

A valid NetCDF external data type (e.g NC_FLOAT, NC_DOUBLE).

=item ncdims 

The number of compressed dimensions. If the number of compressed dimensions
is less than the total number of variable dimensions then compression
will take place along only the I<ncdims> fastest-varying dimensions.
If I<ncdims> is zero the variable will not be compressed. The maximum 
value for I<ncdims> is 3.

=item [:dimname]

A colon-seperated list
of the variable's dimension names. The dimension names are specified in the
order from slowest to fastest varying. The dimension names must be defined
with the B<-dimlens> option.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -dimlens

A Colon delimited list of dimension lengths.

=item -dimnames

A Colon delimited list of dimension names for the dimension lengths 
specified by I<-dimlens>. The number of elements specified by I<-dimlens>
and I<-dimnames> must be identical.

=item -help

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=item -help

Print a usage statement and then exit.

=item -ofile 

Specify an alternate NetCDF output file name. The default
is to create a file names B<test.nc>.

=item -wname E<lt>wave_nameE<gt>

Specify the name of the wavelet to use for the wavelet transform. Valid
values are: bior1.1, bior1.3, bior1.5, bior2.2, bior2.4 ,bior2.6,
bior2.8, bior3.1, bior3.3, bior3.5, bior3.7, bior3.9, bior4.4.

The default is bior 4.4 (aka CDF 9/7).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The command 

C<waspcreate -dimlens 256:256:256 -dimnames Nz:Ny:Nx temp:NC_FLOAT:3:Nz:Ny:Nx>

will create a file named test.nc containing the definition of a single
compressed variable named 'temp', with dimensions 256x256x256.

=head1 SEE ALSO

raw2wasp, wasp2raw


=head1 HISTORY

Last updated on $Date$

